README.md, before:

# Crossfire Server (Simple) Backup

## Description

A bash script that creates a tar.gz backup with a date stamp in the file name of the following directory /usr/games/crossfire/var/crossfire

## Installation

It is helpful to have git installed to download all the related code for `Crossfire Server (Simple) Backup`

### Requirements

The script requires a fully installed and working Crossfire server, instructions on how to do that can be found on the [Crossfire Wiki](http://wiki.cross-fire.org/dokuwiki/doku.php/server:server_compiling)

The script is also design to be run as the same user or with RW permission to the directory where all the game content is stored, `/usr/games/crossfire/var/crossfire`

## Usage

Once the software is downloaded or pulled via git:

```bash
#!/bin/bash

# Define the source directory and backup filename
src_dir="/usr/games/crossfire/var/crossfire"
backup_filename="crossfire_backup_$(date +'%Y%m%d_%H%M%S').tar.gz"

# Check if the source directory exists
if [ ! -d "$src_dir" ]; then
  echo "Source directory does not exist: $src_dir"
  exit 1
fi

# Create the tar.gz backup
tar -czvf "$backup_filename" "$src_dir"

if [ $? -eq 0 ]; then
  echo "Backup created successfully: $backup_filename"
else
  echo "Backup creation failed."
fi
```

Save the script to a file (e.g., `backup_crossfire.sh`), make it executable with the `chmod +x backup_crossfire.sh` command, and then run it with `./backup_crossfire.sh`. This script will create a tar.gz backup of the specified directory with a timestamp in the filename.

## Guidelines

### Description: Questions to Consider

 * What is the app for?
   * Anyone who is running a Crossfire server and wants to ensure player account data is backed up and saved
 * What was your motivation?
   * Working on a gaming project of [Crossfire](https://sourceforge.net/projects/crossfire/), I sometimes encounter a question on [Discord](https://crossfire.real-time.com/discord/) or [IRC](https://crossfire.real-time.com/irc/) or within one of the game servers about backing up player data, so I collected enough info to create this bash script
 * What problem does it solve?
   * Quickly provides simple backup of player data, login account data, and unique maps such as guilds and apartments
 * What else should people know about this script?
    * This does not create an incremental backup, this is a backup of all in-game data when the script runs


## Usage:

When you run this script, it will create tar file in the following format, `crossfire_backup_yearmonthyday_hourminutesecond.tar.gz` and backup the data in `/usr/games/crossfire/var/crossfire`:

 1. `account`: directory of player files
 2. `accounts`: file containing Account name:Password:Account last used:Characters (semicolon separated):created:expansion
 3. `banish_file`: file containing players banned or not allowed to play on the server
 4. `bookarch`: file that contains all the available readable book and scroll titles, along with the level of difficulty and other information
 5. `clockdata`: file used to track passage of time in-game
 6. `crossfireboard`: content from the in-game message boards
 7. `crossfiremail`: content from the in-game postal mail
 8. `datafiles`: directory containing various log files for guilds, log file for events related to each player such as creation date and last login
 9. `factions.db`: a not actively used component, but this logs reputation of players based on their actions and interactions with other monsters
 10. `highscore`: file tracking overall level and ranking of players
 11. `highscores`: file tracking and ranking players experience scores for all the different skills types
 12. `ImperialBank_DB`: content tracking banking system account balances and transactions
 13. `maps`: unknown
 14. `players`: old folder for player files?
 15. `PShop`: content for tracking player shop data for maps found in Brittany
 16. `SlotMachine_file`: content for tracking odds and payout for the in-game slot machines
 17. `template-maps`: unknown
 18. `temp.maps`: unknown
 19. `unique-items`: directory containing maps that have areas that do not reset


## Contributing

Contributions are welcome. Creating a fork on this code base is also welcome.

## Questions:

I can be reached via [tannerrj GitHub Profile](https://github.com/tannerrj)

Commit message:

Update the backed up file list to specify which files are binary files vs text files

README.md, after:

# Crossfire Server (Simple) Backup

## Description

A bash script that creates a tar.gz backup with a date stamp in the file name of the following directory /usr/games/crossfire/var/crossfire

## Installation

It is helpful to have git installed to download all the related code for `Crossfire Server (Simple) Backup`

### Requirements

The script requires a fully installed and working Crossfire server, instructions on how to do that can be found on the [Crossfire Wiki](http://wiki.cross-fire.org/dokuwiki/doku.php/server:server_compiling)

The script is also design to be run as the same user or with RW permission to the directory where all the game content is stored, `/usr/games/crossfire/var/crossfire`

## Usage

Once the software is downloaded or pulled via git:

```bash
#!/bin/bash

# Define the source directory and backup filename
src_dir="/usr/games/crossfire/var/crossfire"
backup_filename="crossfire_backup_$(date +'%Y%m%d_%H%M%S').tar.gz"

# Check if the source directory exists
if [ ! -d "$src_dir" ]; then
  echo "Source directory does not exist: $src_dir"
  exit 1
fi

# Create the tar.gz backup
tar -czvf "$backup_filename" "$src_dir"

if [ $? -eq 0 ]; then
  echo "Backup created successfully: $backup_filename"
else
  echo "Backup creation failed."
fi
```

Save the script to a file (e.g., `backup_crossfire.sh`), make it executable with the `chmod +x backup_crossfire.sh` command, and then run it with `./backup_crossfire.sh`. This script will create a tar.gz backup of the specified directory with a timestamp in the filename.

## Guidelines

### Description: Questions to Consider

 * What is the app for?
   * Anyone who is running a Crossfire server and wants to ensure player account data is backed up and saved
 * What was your motivation?
   * Working on a gaming project of [Crossfire](https://sourceforge.net/projects/crossfire/), I sometimes encounter a question on [Discord](https://crossfire.real-time.com/discord/) or [IRC](https://crossfire.real-time.com/irc/) or within one of the game servers about backing up player data, so I collected enough info to create this bash script
 * What problem does it solve?
   * Quickly provides simple backup of player data, login account data, and unique maps such as guilds and apartments
 * What else should people know about this script?
    * This does not create an incremental backup, this is a backup of all in-game data when the script runs


## Usage:

When you run this script, it will create tar file in the following format, `crossfire_backup_yearmonthyday_hourminutesecond.tar.gz` and backup the data in `/usr/games/crossfire/var/crossfire`:

 1. `account`: directory of player files
 2. `accounts`: file containing Account name:Password:Account last used:Characters (semicolon separated):created:expansion
 3. `banish_file`: file containing players banned or not allowed to play on the server
 4. `bookarch`: file that contains all the available readable book and scroll titles, along with the level of difficulty and other information
 5. `clockdata`: file used to track passage of time in-game
 6. `crossfireboard`: binary file for content from the in-game message boards
 7. `crossfiremail`: binary file for content from the in-game postal mail
 8. `datafiles`: directory containing various log files for guilds, log file for events related to each player such as creation date and last login
 9. `factions.db`: binary file for a not actively used component, but this logs reputation of players based on their actions and interactions with other monsters
 10. `highscore`: file tracking overall level and ranking of players
 11. `highscores`: file tracking and ranking players experience scores for all the different skills types
 12. `ImperialBank_DB`: binary file for content tracking banking system account balances and transactions
 13. `maps`: unknown
 14. `players`: old folder for player files?
 15. `PShop`: binary file for content for tracking player shop data for maps found in Brittany
 16. `SlotMachine_file`: binary file for content for tracking odds and payout for the in-game slot machines
 17. `template-maps`: unknown
 18. `temp.maps`: unknown
 19. `unique-items`: directory containing maps that have areas that do not reset


## Contributing

Contributions are welcome. Creating a fork on this code base is also welcome.

## Questions:

I can be reached via [tannerrj GitHub Profile](https://github.com/tannerrj)
